---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 4: Amass"
date:   2020-10-02 01:51:40 -0700
categories: Blog Class
---

Hackers can perform mappings of networks to target attack surfaces and do asset discovery using open source information gathering and active reconnaissance techniques, which interact directly with the target. There are several tools that can help them with that but today we will focus on `Amass`. 

AMASS is a tool made by the OWASP organization and it is a suite of tools that allows you to obtains subdomain names by going through tons of data sources, brute forcing, crawling thorugh the web, and many other ways. This tool is amazing if you need to get information in a passive way, which will not contact or interact with the target directly since you are only browsing the Internet.

This tutorial will go through some of the basic commands to get started with Amass to understand how it works. There are 5 main subcommands: 

   1. `amass enum` --- It performs enumeration and mapping of networks
   
           a. Amass enum -d domain.com --- Checks subdomains in the domain provided, in this case domain.com
           b. Amass enum -src -ip -d domain.com --- Finds source and IPs of that domain. You can use another domain and compare if the domains are related.
           c. Amass enum –src –ip –brute –w wordlistName --- Uses domains in a word list file to find other domains. Automates the process from a given list and if a list is not provided, amass uses its default one.
           d. Amass enum –src –passive –d domain.com --- This will do the scan in a passive mode wihtout interacting with the domain directly.
           e. Amass enum - -list --- This lists all of the data sources used to find subdomains
   
   2. `amass enum` --- It discovers targets for enumerations
   
         a. Amass intel –active –whois –d domain.com --- Finds more domains that are related to domain.com in an active mode.
         
         b. Amass intel –active –asn 13335 --- Finds additional domains through the ASN of the domain


   3. `amass viz` --- It makes the results much more visual
   
      a. Amass viz –d3 –d domain.com --- It produces an HTML file in d3 format, which is a graph and it shows all of the subdomains for the specified domain.

   
   4. `amass track` --- It allows you to distinguish differences between different results
   
      a. Amass track –d domain.com --- It will find differences between two scans done at different times. It is a way to see if new domains or subdomains or IPs were found.

   
   5. `amass db` --- It allows you to change the amass database
   
      a. Amass db –name –d domain.com --- It will show the result for a scan that was done previously for that specific domain.
      b. Amass db –show –d domain.com --- This will show you the full result with extra information for the scan done in that domain.
      c. Amass db –names –src –d domain.com --- It shows the sources and names where it got the information from.



   
   
   
   
