---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 5: Dig and DNSRecon"
date:   2020-10-09 01:51:40 -0700
categories: Blog Class
---

The `Domain Name Service (DNS)` is a protocol that maps a domain name like `www.google.com` to IP addresses like `10.1.1.1` so humans do not have to memorize all of the available IPs. Humans understand better words than numbers and that is what DNS is for. You can also have a reverse DNS lookup which will be mapping an IP to a domain name.

Attackers sometimes take advantage of DNS because if you control the DNS server or cache you can map your target to any domain of your choice. For example, let's say you control the DNS server of your target. You can add a line with the IP of Google.com that maps to the IP of the target. Like this:
           
           8.8.8.8       evilwebsite.com
  
There are two really important tools when it comes to DNS enumeration and finding any kind of record that might be important to a penetration tester, company, or hacker. These two tools are `dig` and `DNSRecon`. They do different things but they target the same service, which is the Domain Name Service. 

`Dig` is a tool that is used to query DNS servers and the records inside of them. DNS servers can contain millions of records and this tool can facilitate the process of requesting or finding any record of your choice. This tool was intended to be for identifying and fixing DNS issues, but overtime, experts and hackers have used it to find important information about DNS. These are some useful ways of using dig:

   1. `dig google.com ns` ---  This command will allow you to find the Domain Name servers (ns) for the domain google.com.
           
   2. `dig google.com mx` --- This will allow a user to find the email (mx) records for the domain google.com
   
   3. `dig google.com axfr` --- AXFR is used to replicate DNS databases also known as a DNS transfer. These records provide really good information since you can find any record that has been transfer like A, AAA, MX, or NS records in one command.
   
DNSRecon is a Python tool that has a lot of uses like find the hosts that are associated wiht a given IP address, brute force subdomains and hosts, check DNS cached records, and check all NS records. These are some uses of it:
     
   1. `dnsrecon -n google.com -r 192.168.1.1-192.168.1.254` --- The `-n` will specify the domain name and the `-r` will set up the range of IPs. This will perform reverse lookups in that range and find the PTR records of that domain.
   
   2. `dnsrecon -n google.com -D namelist.txt` --- This will domain brute force and it will try to resolve the A,AAA and CNAME records against the domain.
   
   
  
