---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 1: Containerization vs Virtualization"
date:   2020-09-04 01:51:40 -0700
categories: Blog Class
---

I have always gotten confused between what virtualization and a container is, what is the difference between these two terms, and what is best for you. These are terms that someone that is getting into Information Technology (IT) should add to their dictionary since they are getting really common nowadays since everyhing is going online. 

`Virtualization` is the process to emulate another operating system on top of your own local operating system. Virtualization uses a hypervisor that can be software like a program where you can download it from your browser or, it can be already its own operating system and installed in the hardware directly. 

These hypervisors allow to get resources like RAM, processors, memory, and others from your local machine that are not being used and virtualize those to create a new instance of an operating system of your choice. This is what we call a `Virtual Machine`.

    1) `Type I hypervisors` are software that are installed on bare metal servers. There is no other software in between since this hypervisor acts as the Operating system of the server. They are more efficient but more expensice and difficult to maintain. Some examples are ESXI, VMWare Vsphere, or Microsoft Hyper-V.
   
    2) `Type II hypervisors` are sofware installed on top of another operating system. They are really lightweight and do not need a lot to maintain. You can directly create many virtual machines from this software. Some vendors are Oracle Virtual Box or VMWare Workstation.
  
`Containerization` is a way to use the same kernel as your computer operating system to create container or instances of another operating system, which makes it really lightweight and easy to use. Containers have been getting really popular lately because of how easy and how light they are. The only issue is that they are less secure since there is no software separating the container and your operating system. 

The performance level of these container are much more better than virtual machines. Another thing to note here is that containers can be created from operating systems that have the same kernel as the host operating system. One example of sofware use for containerization is `Docker`.

Now that you know the difference between both, you can choose which is best for you.
  


