---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 11: Human Computer Interaction"
date:   2020-11-20 02:51:40 -0700
categories: Blog Class
---

`Cognitive psychology` or `cognition` is really important when designing user interface since programmers or designers look for an interface that would catch the user’s eye. Normally, users do not remember the exact elements of things but some generic elements and that will later remind them of that user interface. When designing user interfaces, designers have to reduce memory load so users remember key elements and when they see an object that is similar to that memory, it will remind them of that program that they once used. For example, whenever we see a lower case “g”, we relate that to Google.

Another important thing to take into consideration when designing user interfaces are the element placing and the size of it. Users like to see interactive and visual elements, so it is easy for them to use without needing them to spend a lot of time on it. Users also look for colorful icons or big icons, so it catches their attention. In the Google talk by Alex Faaborg, it is said that “if someone is looking for shapes, they are going to do that in linear scan”. We need to considerate the gulf of execution and the gulf of evaluation as well which are two important terms that are used when designing user interfaces. 

Last thing that comes into consideration when designing User Interfaces is emotion. You need to create a feeling of trust between the user and the interface. First impressions matter a lot to user because that will determine what application to use. If they see strange pop-up messages or warnings, they are probably not going to trust that application anymore. So, creating that bond between the user and the user interface will create that trust. Users look for key objects that they can identify and relate easily like a tool bar that says in all caps "CLICK HERE". Their attention is going to go to those big letters. 

Overall, cognition is really important when designing user interfaces and designers have to take the user’s perception in consideration to attract the user to its application. That application that is being design has to become the user’s best friend. The user interface is made for the user so they can have that bond and that trust. Designers need to understand users.

