---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 0: Three Types of Port Forwarding"
date:   2020-09-04 01:51:40 -0700
categories: Blog Class
---


SSH stands for Secure Shell and it is a protocol used to connect to a client in a secured manner using encryption. It can be used to connect to a server remotely that is running HTTP or FTP or to transfer files as well with encryption implementation.  

Port forwading is a way to transfer data of services that use an unecrypted protocol to access something that might not be available to someone from the outside. 
There are three types of ways you can do port forwading:
    
   1) Local Port Forwarding - This will forward the connection to the SSH host and then to the destination port. This is used to connect to a server in a internal network since it might be protected by firewalls.
    
        ssh -L LocalPort:destinationIP:DestinationPort username@sshServer

        Where:
            LocalPort is the local machine port number
            DestinationPort is the destination port that wants to be reached.

        Example:
            ssh -L 10.0.0.1:80 user1@192.168.1.2

   2) Remote Port Forwarding - It will forward a port from the host to the client and then to the destination port. 
    
        ssh -R remotePort:DestinationIP:DestinationPort user@sshIP

        Where:
            remotePort is the port number on the ssh server that is being contacted
            DestinationIP is the IP for the destination machine
            DestinationPort is the port used in the destination machine

        Example:
            ssh -R 8080:10.0.0.1:3200 user1@192.10.1.1

   3) Dynamic Port Forwading - This will create a SOCKS proxy that can be used to encrypt communication between a range of ports. It is similar as using `proxychains`.
    
        ssh -D [IP]:localPort username@sshIP

        Where:
            IP is not mandatory and is the local machine IP
            LocalPort is the the local port number
        
        Example:
            ssh -D 8080 user1@192.1.1.12

    
