---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 3: NMAP and its Options"
date:   2020-09-25 01:51:40 -0700
categories: Blog Class
---

Hackers need to scan a network and know what they are facing when attacking a network. There are several tools that can help them with that but the choice among everyone is `NMAP`. NMAP stands for Network Mapper and besides scanning a netowrk, it has other options that can help enumerating, scanning ports, banner grabbing, and even scripts you can use for enumeration.

Not only hackers use this tool, but companies might use it as well for defending purposes and getting to know their network a little better. This will help them improve anytning that it might break their security like closing ports that do not give encryption, or a port that should be behing a firewall. 

The basic options or flags that hackers use for NMAP are:

   1. `nmap -sS [IP]` --- This flag does a TCP SYN scan which only sends a SYN packet on the three-way handshake and then cancels the connection by sending a RST packet. This one will be more sneaky and can get through firewalls.
   
   2. `nmap -sT [IP]` --- This flag does a full TCP connection and it is more reliable since it actually connects to the service. This option is easier to detect by firewalls or other security systems.
   
   3. `nmap -sU [IP]` --- This flag scans for only UDP ports such as DNS.
   
   4. `nmap -p [port] [IP]` --- This flag will allow you to scan any port of your choice to be more specific. You can scan a single port or several ones.
   
    EX -- nmap -p 80,443 192.1.1.1
    
   5. `nmap -p- [IP]` --- This flag allows you to scan all 65535 ports. Obviously, this options takes really long to complete.
   
   6. `nmap -Pn [IP]` --- This flag scans a network without pinging them and treating every machine as they are online. This can bypass if a firewall blocks ICMP packets.
   
   7. `nmap -A [IP]` --- This flag scans everything plus OS detection and services. It takes longer since it scans for more content.
   
   8. `nmap -sV [IP]` --- This flag will allow service version detection on the services being scanned. 
   
   9. `nmap -sF [IP]` --- This flag allows for a fast scan and scans the 100 most common ports.
   
   10. `nmap -iL list.txt` --- This flag allows to input a file with a list of IPs to scan. It automates the process of scanning lots of IPs.

