---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 8: Top 3 Malware in the World"
date:   2020-10-30 01:51:40 -0700
categories: Blog Class
---

The top malware that is being used right now is `ZeuS` which is basically a banking Trojan that uses keystrokes for logging and to compromise credentials from victims or users. This action happens when the user visits the website of a bank. This kind of malware was released in 2011 and right now, it is the biggest malware in the world. Many other malwares have used part of its code since it became open source in 2011 and included that part of the code to the malware. That means this Trojan is very powerful and it can do a lot of harm to people that daily access their bank accounts.


The second malware in the top 10 list is the `CoinMiner` which is just simply a cryptocurrency miner that uses Windows Management Instrumentation (WMI) and EternalBlue to spread through the whole network. This malware uses the Windows tool named WMI Standard Event Consumer scripting to execute scripts to gain some persistence when doing coin mining. This malware is spreads through malspam or it can also be dropped by other type of malware.


The last kind of malware that I am going to talk about is a pretty famous malware in the hacker or security community which is `CryptoWall`. This malware is a ransomware that is distributed through malspam like CoinMiner, with malicious ZIP attachments, Java vulnerabilities, and maybe even malicious advertisements. CryptoWall will basically scan the system for drive letters, network shares, and removable drives. This type of malware can run on both kinds of architectures, which are 32 and 64 bit computers. 

