---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 6: Top 5 Security Tools"
date:   2020-10-16 01:51:40 -0700
categories: Blog Class
---

`Wireshark` is an open-source platform network protocol analyzer. This application will allow you to examine data from a live network or from a capture file or disk. Wireshark has some interesting and powerful feature like the ability to view the reconstructed stream of a TCP session and it even includes a language for filtering display. This amazing application supports almost every protocol.

`John the Ripper` is a free and open-source software. It is a really fast password cracker that is available for many operating systems like Windows, Unix, and even DOS. This software will detect weak passwords in UNIX systems, and other platforms as well. John the Ripper combines a number of password crackers into one package, autodetects passwords hash types, and has a customizable cracker.

`Netcat` is a software or utility that simply reads and writes data across TCP and UDP networks connections. It is designed to be a reliable back-end tool to use directly. This amazing software has also a network debugging and exploration tool. You can also have the ability to use any local source port and any locally configured network source address. It has a featured tunneling mode which permits user-defined tunneling.

`Nessus` is one of the most popular and capable vulnerability scanners which used to be free, but now it costs $2,190 per year. There is a free version named Nessus Home. Nessus allows to scan vulnerabilities that allow a hacker to control sensitive data on a system. It can also scan for denials of service against TCP/IP stack by using malformed packets and it scans for preparation for PCI DSS audits. This is
