---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 1: Windows Training Example "
date:   2021-02-26 01:51:40 -0700
categories: Blog Class
---

Today I am going to talk about what a normal training for the Windows Team is in the Cyber Collegiate Defense Competition (CCDC). This competition consists on defending our servers that offer a service to the public and we have to make sure they are secure and always up. There are different virtual machines with different Operating Systems. There are three teams inside the full team, which are Windows, Linux, and Networking.

We normally train by teams and every now and then, we do a training with everyone involved to get experience. Today, I will share one of the assignments that our team lead assigned us:


`Windows I Assignment`

This the first assignment of the summer for Windows. It is a simple assignment just to get familiar with the Windows Server, Active Directory, and some other services. This project must fulfill the following requirements:

1)	Create a Windows Server (the year does not matter) VM and set up Active Directory on it. 
2)	Set that server as a Domain Controller (DC)
3)	Create a brand-new domain.
4)	Create a Windows 8 or 10 VM and join it to the domain you just created. Make sure your gateway, mask, and DNS point to the Domain Controller. 
5)	Proof that the Windows machine can ping the DC and vice versa. 
6)	Set up a simple IIS server (web server) on the DC and access it from one of the machines. 
7)	Create two users on the domain: Juan and Mika and make sure they are password protected.

NOTE: Make sure to do research on anything you do not know and take notes. We will go over this in a virtual class we will have soon. Feel free to ask Mika or me anything regarding this project. Good luck!!!! 



As you see, this might seem very easy for some but it is very time consuming. I hope this is helpful to someone who is planning to compete or just get better in Cyber Security.
