---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 3: TCP/IP"
date:   2021-03-12 01:51:40 -0700
categories: Blog Class
---

Let's start today with host discovery on the network and what programs or commands that can be used. We will assume that we know which subnet our machines or the target machines are on and define a small range to make things move a little faster for us.
		
    sudo netdiscover -r 10.0.0.0/16

- This command will give you the active hosts on the subnet, their corresponding MAC addresses, and their known vendor if possible. This really helps when a penetration tester is doing some recconaissance or footprinting. This will lead to developing exploits for a weak target or machine.


`Hping3` is a versatile custom packet crafting program. Hping3 is capable of sending custom TCP/IP packets and to display target replies like ping does with simple ICMP packets. Hping3 can handle fragmentation, arbitrary packet body contents and size. It can be used in order to transfer files encapsulated under certain protocols. We will use hping3 to determine if a specific port is open on an active host that you discovered in the previous steps. We’ll check to see if port 80 is open. Hping3 requires root privileges, so we will need to enter sudo to run it. Do that by entering the following command:


	sudo hping3 -I lo -S skillsetlocal.com -p 80
  
  This command will scan if any host has port 80 open in the network. This is really helpful to find hosts that have vulnerable ports like are 80, 22, or even 21. You can then develop an attack to that specific host with that specific weak port opened.

One really powerful feature of hping3 is its ability to spoof IP packets. In other words, it can forge the source address in the packet and make it appear to be coming from any source IP we choose. 
Let’s tell Hping3 to make it look like our packets are being sent from the IP address of 1.2.3.4. Of course, in real life you can select any IP you want, but for this lab let’s enter 1.2.3.4 so it will be easier to view in the traffic capture later. For this command, again, select an active host that is not your own machine. Enter the following command:
		
    sudo hping3 -I lo -a 1.2.3.4 -S skillsetlocal.com -p 80
