---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 0: Cyber Security Certifications "
date:   2021-02-19 01:51:40 -0700
categories: Blog Class
---

Today I am going to talk about three different kinds of certfications that someone that is passionate about security can get to improve their knowledge and to also, get noticed by companies that look for qualified people.


Even though, these certfications can be expensive, they will benefit you in the long run because they are recognized internationally. When you are in the lookout for a job, some of the requirements or the extra things that will separate someone standard from a good candidate are certifications. They test many different areas in the security field, from protocols to physical security and more. Today I will discuss the top three certfications that will open you new doors and that will give you the knowledge you need to enter in the cybersecurity world:

1) `CompTIA Security+` ---- This is a certification that will test you on the core components of security and its functions. It has theory and practical parts that will make sure you become aware of how to analyze, identify, and respond to security events. You will also be able to monitor and secure hybrid environments to make sure everything runs smoothly. Something and in my opinion, the most important topic that you will learn is governance, risk, and compliance that applies directly to companies. The test consists of 90 questions that you need to complete in 90 minutes with a passing score of at least 750. The price is $370, but for students drops to $209.

2) `CompTIA Pentest+` --- This certification is the next one you should get after completing Security+. This is a cybersecurity certification that will make you aware of penetration testing and vulnerability management. The skills that you will learn from this test are planning and scoping, information gathering and vulnerability identification, penetration testing tools, and attacks and exploits. Some jobs that use Pentest+ are Penetration Tester, Vulnerability Tester, or Security Analyst. The test consists of 85 questions that you need to complete in 165 minutes with a passing score of at least 750. The price is $370, but for students is $240.


3) `eLearnSecurity Junior Penetration Tester (eJPT) Certification` --- This certicication is a 100% practical test on penentration testing and cybersecurity essentials. Some of the skills that you will learn are IP routing, essential penetration testing methods, exploitation with metasploit, and basic reconnaissance. You can get a deep understanding on what a penetration tester or security analyst does in their daily routine. This is a really good compliment certification to the CompTIA Pentest+. You have three days to complete the test which is done in a virtual environment where you habe to break in and answer several questions. The price for this test is $200.


After these three amazing certificaitons, I hope you can get an idea of what companies can look for. These ones require lots of studying but at the end, it will be worth it and you will get lots of knowledge.
