---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 2: Abusing SNMP "
date:   2021-03-05 01:51:40 -0700
categories: Blog Class
---

The `Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP)` can provide us with a wealth of information about a target. To get this information, we will need to first discover the community strings used by our target devices. We can do this in a brute force or dictionary attack way. We’ll be using a tool written in C named `onesixtyone`.

We will simply use the dictionary file with onesixtyone to check to see if we can find the correct community string for our machine. It should be understood that your first attempt might fail in the real world, which would mean you need a better dictionary.

        onesixtyone 10.0.x.y -c /usr/share/wordlists/dirb/small.txt

Now that we have cracked some community strings, we can now use one of them to enumerate information about the target devices. For this task we’ll be using `snmpwalk`. Let’s tell snmpwalk to enumerate everything that it can about our machine, using the community string we discovered using onesixtyone. We do have to account for the version. We'll specify version 2c, which, if that's what used on the system, will pull both 32-bit and 64-bit counters. If we run snmpwalk without specifying any OIDs (Object Identifier), we would see way more information scroll past than you are able to process in your head! This is because we are saying "get everything.".

Enter this command, using your own IP address (be sure to replace the "xxxxx" with the community string we cracked in the previous step):

		  snmpwalk -v 2c -c xxxxxx 10.0.x.y | more
