---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 5: HPing3"
date:   2021-04-02 01:51:40 -0700
categories: Blog Class
---

`Hping3` is a versatile custom packet crafting program. Hping3 is capable of sending custom TCP/IP packets and to display target replies like ping does with simple ICMP packets. Hping3 can handle fragmentation, arbitrary packet body contents and size. It can be used in order to transfer files encapsulated under certain protocols. We will use hping3 to determine if a specific port is open on an active host that you discovered in the previous steps. This command checks if port 80 is running. Hping3 requires root privileges, so we will need to enter sudo to run it. Do that by entering the following command:

	sudo hping3 -I lo -S skillsetlocal.com -p 80
  
 One really powerful feature of hping3 is its ability to spoof IP packets. In other words, it can forge the source address in the packet and make it appear to be coming from any source IP we choose. 
Let’s tell Hping3 to make it look like our packets are being sent from the IP address of 1.2.3.4. Of course, in real life you can select any IP you want. For this command, again, select an active host that is not your own machine. Enter the following command:

    sudo hping3 -I lo -a 1.2.3.4 -S skillsetlocal.com -p 80 

•For that we can use the Hping3 --scan option, which allows checking several specific port numbers, or all ports within a specific range. Enter the following command to send TCP Syn packets to all ports from 1 to 81 on the target host		

    sudo hping3 -I lo -S skillsetlocal.com --scan 1-81
